
Page 1
Chip encryption recommendations
1 Overview
This document will describe some encryption and decryption technologies currently in use (2015.12.30) or known as developer encryption
Suggestion, in fact, we just want to express a kind of thought, method and simple suggestion. It is more for the developer to complete it, otherwise the encryption
The method is the same, and its meaning is not great; in addition, since the encryption and decryption technology will become more diversified over time, the list
The encryption and decryption methods mentioned will be affected in real time, and I hope developers can understand.
First of all, we must clarify a concept. The use of more or more advanced encryption methods can only increase the difficulty of decryption, but cannot absolutely eliminate it.
The chip is decrypted. With the improvement of chip reverse technology, the investment in chip decryption research is also increasing. We can always find a way to decrypt the chip.
There is no absolutely secure encryption method. So when making a product, confidentiality is a factor, but the most important thing is the production.
Therefore, the design cannot be made more difficult because of encryption, which affects the function of the device itself. Chip encryption and decryption
The most important principle is to try to make the decryption cost greater than the development cost , so that the decryption has no value and meaning.
2. Decryption technology
The decryption technology here is not to popularize the decryption method. We must know ourselves and the enemy in order to survive all battles and protect our labor.
Moving results. The following will list some known decryption methods. In fact, these things are also available online or on portals dedicated to decrypting chips
There can be a simple explanation, we only need to understand its usage, and then do a targeted encryption work.
Microcontrollers generally have internal ROM/EEPROM/FLASH for users to store programs. In order to prevent unauthorized
The right to access or copy the internal program of the single-chip microcomputer, most of the single-chip microcomputers have an encrypted lock bit or encrypted byte to protect the on-chip program.
If the encryption lock bit is enabled (locked) during programming, it is impossible to directly read the program in the microcontroller with a normal programmer.
It is called copy protection or lock function.
Currently, there are four main techniques for attacking MCUs, namely:
(1) Software attack
This technology usually uses the processor communication interface and exploits the security vulnerabilities of the protocol and encryption algorithm to attack. Software attackers exploit
Vulnerability in the timing design of the erasing operation of the single-chip microcomputer. After erasing the encryption lock bit using a self-programmed program, stop the next step to erase the on-chip program memory.
The operation of the memory data turns the encrypted single-chip microcomputer into an unencrypted single-chip, and then use the programmer to read the on-chip program.
(2) Electronic detection attacks
This technology usually monitors the analog characteristics of all power and interface connections during normal operation of the processor with high time resolution, and passes
Monitor its electromagnetic radiation characteristics to carry out attacks. Because the microcontroller is an active electronic device, when it executes different instructions,
The corresponding power consumption also changes accordingly. In this way, through the use of special electronic measuring instruments and mathematical statistical methods to analyze and detect these changes
It can obtain specific key information in the microcontroller.
(3), fault generation technology
This technique uses abnormal operating conditions to cause processor errors, and then provides additional access to attack. Most widely used fault
The attack methods include voltage shock and clock shock. Low voltage and high voltage attacks can be used to disable protection circuits or force the processor
Perform wrong operation. Transient clock transitions will also reset the protection circuit without destroying the protected information. Power and clock transients can be
Some processors affect the decoding and execution of a single instruction.
(4) Probe technology
This technique directly exposes the internal wiring of the chip, and then observes, manipulates, and interferes with the microcontroller to achieve the purpose of attack.
For convenience, people divide the above four attack techniques into two categories, one is intrusive attacks (physical attacks), and this type of attack
Need to destroy the package, and then spend hours or even weeks in a dedicated laboratory with the help of semiconductor test equipment, microscopes and micro-positioners
Time will be completed. All microprobe technologies are invasive attacks. The other three methods are non-intrusive attacks.
The film player will not be physically damaged. Non-intrusive attacks are particularly dangerous in certain situations, because the equipment required for non-intrusive attacks is usually
It can be made and upgraded, so it is very cheap.
Most non-intrusive attacks require the attacker to have good processor knowledge and software knowledge. In contrast, invasive probe attacks
It does not require much initial knowledge, and a set of similar technologies can usually be used to deal with a wide range of products. Therefore, the
Page 2
Attacks often start with invasive reverse engineering, and the accumulated experience helps to develop cheaper and faster non-invasive attack techniques.
The first step in an invasive attack is to remove the chip package. There are two ways to achieve this goal: the first is to completely dissolve the chip
Encapsulate and expose metal connections. The second is to remove only the plastic package on the silicon core. The first method requires binding the chip to the test fixture
, Use the binding table to operate. The second method requires a certain knowledge and necessary skills of the attacker, as well as personal
Wisdom and patience, but relatively easy to operate.
3. Recommendations for MCU encryption
In theory, an attacker can use the above methods to break through with sufficient investment and time for any single-chip microcomputer. So, in
When using a single-chip computer for encryption authentication or designing a system, the attacker's cost and time should be increased as much as possible. This is the system designer
The basic principles should always be kept in mind.
The encryption of the MCU program mainly involves several aspects: ①Prevent the internal program (HEX/BIN) of the MCU from being read ②Prevent the MCU
After the internal program is read out, it can be used directly. ③ Prevent HEX/BIN from being decompiled (more difficult); therefore, the following suggestions are given:
3.1. Selection suggestions
(1) Before selecting an encryption chip, it is necessary to fully investigate and understand the new development of the MCU cracking technology, including which MCU has been
Confirm that it can be cracked. Try not to use chips that can be cracked or of the same series and models.
(2) The original creator of the product generally has the characteristics of large output, so relatively uncommon and unpopular single-chip microcomputers can be used to increase the imitation
Difficulty of purchase by prostitutes.
(3) Choose a single-chip microcomputer with new technology, new structure and short time to market.
(4) If the design cost permits, a smart card chip with hardware self-destruction function should be selected to effectively deal with physical attacks.
In order to protect the work results of developers, we provide chip hardware protection for CH55X series MCUs. Code cannot be
It was read out, and we are very willing to discuss chip code protection with customers.
3.2. Hardware design recommendations
(1) Let the original chip manufacturer replace all the package pins of the chip;
(2). Print the CH55X as XXXX etc., polish away the chip model and other information or reprint other models to make it fake;
(3) Use epoxy resin + enzyme (xxx enzyme: can increase the hardness, if the chip is scrapped after it is opened), the tested circuit board is dense
Sealed
(4) Use bare chips to make products;
(6) Fuse some ports with high current;
(7) Use a four-layer board (intentionally take some more wires); set some traps on the PCB board, such as passing a blown out two to the microcontroller
The pole tube or resistor provides high-voltage power supply, if imitated, the chip will be burnt out when power on;
(8) If conditions permit, two single-chip microcomputers of different models can be used as mutual backup and mutual verification, thereby increasing the cost of cracking. CH55X
Series of single-chip microcomputers, according to the actual situation of our company, if the customer meets certain conditions, we can also provide
Chips, chip grinding, replacement of packaging materials, provision of bare chips and other services.
3.3. Software design suggestions
(1). When using the chip, use the ID function of the chip. After decryption, write the code to other chips.
Different IDs will not work;
(2). Use the ISP software to generate and burn the unique key to the specific area of ​​the single-chip microcomputer and then you need to check the key when burning the program;
In order to activate all the encryption functions of the chip itself;
(3) Set the password file. If you want to read the program, you must have the password file. If you are reading the program, if you enter
If the password is wrong, the FLASH memory will be cleared automatically;
(4) Add a chip protection program to the chip program, such as clearing the contents of all chips when there is voltage input on pin XX;
(5) Use ISP software to encrypt the program (prevent terminal users from contacting HEX, and the program is bound to the MCU): ISP software can
Generate a computer-based executable file. This file contains the upgrade code. After opening it, you can directly connect to the product to upgrade.
Will be exposed to the upgrade code. This software can lock the hard disk number and implement directional installation with better confidentiality;
(6) Other;
